What can we do with the desin "gpio_uboot" from repository https://github.com/wzab/BR_Internet_Radio?

To get the design, please do:

git clone https://github.com/wzab/BR_Internet_Radio
cd BR_Internet_Radio
gti checkout gpio_uboot

After the design is unpacked, in the directory "QemuVexpressA9" we find two subdirectories:
"Utility" and "Admin".
They may be used as templates to create your own designs.
Buildroot in both directories is patched to work with the emulated GPIO
(Of course you must use it with its own, modified QEMU. Otherwise the messages won't
be received by QEMU and the GUI will finally freeze due to overflown message queues.)

The BR in "Utility" is configured to generate a Linux working with the real root
filesystem in ext4 format. To test it without any modification, you may simply
run the "./build.sh" script in the Utility directory.
After successful build, you may start the GUI, by running "gui2.py" (with Python 2)
or "gui3.py" (with Python 3) in the GUI subdirectory.
In another console you may the start the "runme" script in the "Utility" directory.
You should get your Linux working in the emulated virtual machine.
As previously you may use the "button13_read_irq.py", "led31_blink.py", 
"switch0_read_irq.py" or "irqtest.sh" to test interaction with GUI.
Of course you may also extend the Utility system with your own application.
What's important, you may test it here, independently, by running the "runme" script.

The important fact is that after modifications. you do not need start from the begining,
using the "./build.sh" script. You may simply rebuild your design by running "make"
(with the appropriate options, "make clean all" in the worst case)
in the Utility/buildroot-2020.02 directory.

However, now our main goal is to add our "Utility" system to another one, equipped
with the bootloader. That's the "Admin" system.
You may copy the generated "Utility" kernel and root filesystem image to the "Admin"
by running the "copy_to_admin.sh" script (please analyze it).

After the generated files are copied, we may start building the Admin system.
The first step is to decide if the U-Boot should by default load the administrative
system or the utility one. To do that please enter the Admin/user_img directory,
and run either "boot_user.sh" or "boot_admin.sh". Please analyse what those scripts are
doing, and both "txt" files that are the sources of the generated boot.scr U-Boot script.
One of your tasks will be creating the combined U-Boot script, that enables selecting
one of those system

Now you can build the Admin system and create the emulated SD card containing the bootloader
and both systems. Just run build.sh script in the Admin directory.

After successfull build, you my start your simulated system.
If you have previously started the GUI from the Utility/GUI, you may still use it.
It is the same as the available in the Admin/GUI.
Of course, the simulation is started by running the "runme" script in the "Admin" directory.
You will see, that U-Boot starts first. If you press any key during the first 2 seconds,
the autoboot process will be interrupted (just like in our normal lab), and you'll 
enter the U-Boot command line. You may type "help" to see the available commands.
In particular please test the "gpio" command that allows you interact with GPIO
inputs and outputs. Please, be aware of limitations mentioned in the description 
of exercise 3.

If you do not press any key, the U-Boot will execute commands from the boot.scr script,
and bbot the previously selected system.

With those templates you may start to prepare your own Admin system, the Utility system
and the U-Boot script.
Good luck!


